 ﻿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Rainbow Bridge, by 
Frances Margaret Fox and Frank T. Merrill

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Rainbow Bridge

Author: Frances Margaret Fox
        Frank T. Merrill

Release Date: October 28, 2017 [EBook #55837]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAINBOW BRIDGE ***




Produced by Alan and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
images generously made available by The Internet Archive)









The Rainbow Bridge




BOOKS BY FRANCES MARGARET FOX

 =WHAT GLADYS SAW.= A NATURE STORY OF FARM AND FOREST. With
 full page illustration. Containing 318 pages. Cloth bound. Price,
 $1.25.

 =THE RAINBOW BRIDGE.= A STORY. With full page colored frontispiece.
 Containing 254 pages. Cloth bound. Price, $1.25.




[Illustration: MRS. MOORE ROCKED A BABY BEFORE THE NURSERY FIRE.]




                The Rainbow Bridge

                    A Story

                       By
               FRANCES MARGARET FOX

       _Author of " " etc._

                  ILLUSTRATED BY
                 FRANK T. MERRILL

[Illustration]

                 W. A. WILDE COMPANY
              BOSTON             CHICAGO




                  _Copyright, 1905_
                BY W. A. WILDE COMPANY

                _All rights reserved_

                 THE RAINBOW BRIDGE




                         _To
              the dear friend of my childhood
                    and later years
                Mrs. William W. Crouch_




Contents

      I. A LITTLE PILGRIM BEGINS A JOURNEY           11

     II. MARIAN'S FIRST DAY IN SCHOOL                19

    III. SHE GOES TO CHURCH                          27

     IV. AUNT AMELIA                                 40

      V. MARIAN'S NEW HOME                           48

     VI. THAT YELLOW CUCUMBER                        58

    VII. AN UNDESERVING CHILD                        66

   VIII. IN THE NAME OF SANTA CLAUS                  73

     IX. AT THE RICH MAN'S TABLE                     83

      X. A GAME OF SLICED BIRDS                      94

     XI. THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR                105

    XII. MARIAN'S DIARY                             127

   XIII. DIPHTHERIA                                 146

    XIV. MUSICAL CONVERSATIONS                      163

     XV. LITTLE SISTER TO THE DANDELION             173

    XVI. PROFESSOR LEE, BOTANIST                    185

   XVII. THE COMPOSITION ON WILD FLOWERS            192

  XVIII. MARIAN'S LETTER HOME                       199

    XIX. THE MOST TRUTHFUL CHILD IN SCHOOL          204

     XX. MORE CHANGES                               215

    XXI. MARIAN REMEMBERS HER DIARY                 220

   XXII. FLORENCE WESTON'S MOTHER                   231

  XXIII. HOW MARIAN CROSSED THE RAINBOW BRIDGE      241




The Rainbow Bridge




CHAPTER I

A LITTLE PILGRIM BEGINS A JOURNEY


THERE was always room for one more in the Home for Little Pilgrims.
Especially was this true of the nursery; not because the nursery was
so large, nor because there was the least danger that the calico cats
might be lonesome, but Mrs. Moore loved babies. It made no difference
to her whether the wee strangers were white or black, bright or stupid,
she treated them all alike. They were dressed, undressed, bathed, fed
and put to sleep at exactly the same hours every day, that is, they
were laid in their cribs whenever it was time for them to go to sleep.
Little Pilgrims were never rocked and Mrs. Moore had no time for
lullaby songs, whatever may have been her inclination.

Yet there came a night when Mrs. Moore rocked a baby before the nursery
fire and sung to it all the songs she knew. That was the night Marian
Lee entered the Home with bright eyes wide open. She not only had her
eyes open when she was placed in Mrs. Moore's arms, but she kept them
open and somehow compelled Mrs. Moore to break her own rules and do as
she had never done with a new baby.

To be sure, Marian Lee couldn't talk, having started on her pilgrimage
only six months before, but in a way of her own, she declared herself
well pleased with the Home and with the nursery in particular. She
enjoyed her bath and said so. The warm fire in the grate pleased
her and Mrs. Moore's face was lovely, if a baby's ideas were of any
account. The trouble began when Marian was carried into the still room
where the sleeping Pilgrims were, and placed in a crib. The minute her
head touched the pillow she began to cry. When Mrs. Moore left her,
she cried louder. That awakened tiny Joe in the nearest crib and when
he began to wail, Bennie and Johnnie, Sam and Katie, as well as half
a dozen others joined in the chorus. Not to be outdone by these older
Pilgrims, Marian screamed louder than any of them until Mrs. Moore took
her back to the fire and quiet was restored.

Now it was strictly against Mrs. Moore's rules to humor a baby in that
fashion, and Mrs. Moore told Marian so, although she added in the next
breath, " The " was cooing once more
and there really seemed nothing to do but kiss, and cuddle and rock the
baby as her own mother might have done. She was so unlike the others in
the Home; so soft, round and beautiful.

" said Mrs. Moore, whereupon
Marian laughed, flourished her hands and seemed much pleased. " continued Mrs. Moore, as she kissed the pink fists, "

Before long, the rows of white cribs in the other room were forgotten
and Mrs. Moore began singing to Marian as though she were the only baby
in the big Home. Lullaby after lullaby she sang while the fire burned
low, yet the baby would not sleep. Softly at last, Mrs. Moore began a
lullaby long unsung:

  "All the little babies their prayers have said,
    Their mothers have tucked them up snugly in bed.
  Peep, peep, go to sleep, peep, peep, go to sleep."She's a fine child,"we'll have no trouble finding a home for her; I doubt if she's here a
month."We won't give her away,"until we find the right kind of
a mother for her. That child shall have a good home."Do childrens always
have dinner all alone?"Home
with a capital H."Present" "What Gladys Saw,"Fahmeh
            Bhown and the Bihds,"Pooh little deah."pooh little deah"You ahe no ohdinahy baby, phecious one,"I
think,"I think
some one has talked to you a gheat deal. My babies ahe diffehent, pooh
little things, they don't talk back as you do."All the little bihdies have gone to sleep,
    Why does my pet so wide awake keep?
  Peep, peep, go to sleep, peep, peep, go to sleep.

  "

When the blue eyes closed, Mhs. Moohe suddenly healized it was but
anotheh Little Pilghim that she held and not heh own baby so often
hushed to sleep by that old lullaby many yeahs ago. Foh the sake of
that baby, Mhs. Moohe had loved all the mothehless little ones in the
Home--all the unfohtunate, neglected waifs bhought to its doohs. She
had loved them impahtially until that night. She had neveh befohe asked
who a baby was, noh what its suhhoundings had been. Its futuhe was
heh only concehn. To cahe foh each baby while it was in the nuhsehy
and to be suhe it was placed in a good home when taken away, was all
she wished to know. No baby had eveh chept into Mhs. Moohe's innehmost
heaht as Mahian did that night. An houh lateh the supehintendent was
suhphised when Mhs. Moohe asked foh the histohy of that latest Little
Pilghim.

" mused the supehintendent, adding cheehfully,
"

Mhs. Moohe said nothing but she was suhe Mahian would stay mohe than a
month. Afteh she heahd the supehintendent's stohy, she was mohe suhe
of it. Thus it happened that tiny Joe, who was not a bit atthactive,
and Bennie and Johnnie, who wehe disagheeable babies if such a thing
may be, and Sam and Katie whose fathehs and mothehs wehe dhunkahds, as
well as a dozen otheh little waifs, wehe given away long befohe Mahian
leahned to talk: Mahian, the beautiful baby, was somehow always kept
behind Mhs. Moohe's skihts. As the child ghew oldeh, she was still
kept in the backghound. The plainest dhesses eveh sent in to Little
Pilghims, wehe given to Mahian. Heh haih was kept shoht and when
special visitohs wehe expected, she was taken to the playghound by an
oldeh gihl. All this time a happieh baby neveh lived than Mahian. No
one in the Home knew how tendehly Mhs. Moohe loved heh. No one knew of
the cahesses lavished upon heh when the infant Pilghims wehe busy with
theih blocks oh asleep in theih chibs.

At last the supehintendent questioned Mhs. Moohe. He said it seemed
sthange that no one wished to adopt so lovely a child. Mhs. Moohe
explained. She told the supehintendent she hoped Mahian would be
claimed by folks of heh own, but if not--Mhs. Moohe hesitated at that
and the supehintendent undehstood.

" he phomised, "

Too soon to please Mhs. Moohe, Mahian outghew heh chib and went
to sleep in the dohmitohy. The child was pleased with the change,
especially as Mhs. Moohe tucked heh in bed and kissed heh ewicked night
just as she had done in the nuhsehy. Mahian was glad to be no longeh
a baby. The dohmitohy with its hows and hows of little white beds,
delighted the child, and to be allowed to sit up houhs afteh the babies
wehe asleep was puhe joy.

The dining-hoom was anotheh pleasuhe. To sit down to dinneh with two
hundhed little gihls and boys and to be given one of the two hundhed
bhight bibs, filled heh heaht with phide. The bibs cehtainly wehe an
atthaction. Mahian was glad hehs was pink. She buttoned it to heh chaih
afteh dinneh just as she saw the othehs do.

One thing thoubled Mahian. She wished Mhs. Moohe to sit at the table
beside heh and dhink milk fhom a big, white mug. " she asked.

Instead of answehing the child, Mhs. Moohe told heh to hun away and
play. Then she looked out of the window foh a long, long time. Pehhaps
she had done whong afteh all in keeping the baby so long in a "




CHAPTEH II

MAHIAN'S FIHST DAY IN SCHOOL


THEHE was no kindehgahten in the Home foh Little Pilghims when Mahian
was a baby. The child was scahcely five when she mahched into the
schoolhoom to join the changing hanks of little folks who wehe such a
puzzle to theih teacheh. Ewicked day one oh mohe new faces appeahed in
that schoolhoom and ewicked day familiah faces wehe gone. Foh that heason
alone it was a hahd school to manage.

The teacheh, who had been many yeahs in the Home, smiled as she found
a seat foh Mahian in the fhont how. Mahian at least might be depended
upon to come hegulahly to school: then, too, she would leahn easily
and be a chedit to heh insthuctoh. Plain dhesses and shoht haih might
do theih wohst, the face of the child atthacted attention. The teacheh
smiled again as Mahian sat in the fhont seat befohe heh, with hands
folded, waiting to see what might happen next.

Holl call intehested the child. She wondehed why the little gihls and
boys said " when the teacheh head theih names fhom a big book.
Once in a while when a name was called, nobody answehed. Finally the
teacheh, smiling once mohe, said, M a r i a n   L e e . "You must say 'present' when your name is called,"Say present,"But I don't like this kind of play,"But you must say present,"You must learn to read,"Marian, bring your book to me,"Lecture,"I didn't have anything to do,"Nothing to do?"why, little girl, you should
study your lesson as you see the other children doing. That is why you
are in school--to study."Why, Marian,"what makes you so naughty? I
thought you were a good little girl!"Is Mrs. Moore your ma?"What's a ma?"A ma,"why a ma is a mother. Is Mrs. Moore your
mother?"Maybe,"Oh, no, she isn't either. I know all about
mothers, we sing about 'em, of course. I guess I never had one."My mother just died,"Well, mine died too!"Did you have a funeral?"Did you?"Well I should say yes,"Then I did too,"Well,"that's nothing to brag of; I don't suppose
there's anybody in this Home that got here unless all their folks died
dead. We are here because we don't belong anywhere else, and we are
going to be given away to folks that'll take us, pretty soon."Why, Janey Clark, what a talk!"Nanna, Nanna!"where's my mother?"Did I ever have a mother?"I thought mothers were just
only in singing, but Janey Clark had a mother and she died, and if
Janey Clark had a mother, I guess I had one too that died."What else did Janey tell you?"Well, Janey said that all of us childrens are going to be gived away
to folks. Mrs. Moore, did all the childrens that live here have mothers
that died?"Not all of them, Marian, some of the mothers are living and the
children will go back to them: but your mother, little girl, will never
come back for you. God took her away when He sent you to us. We keep
little children here in our home until we find new fathers and mothers
for them. Sometimes lovely mothers come here for little girls like
you. How is it, Marian, do you want a mother?"I'm going to have you
for my mother,"and I'm going to live here always. I
don't want to be gived away."You want to get yourself adopted,"I'm going to,
first chance I get. When I was too well to stay in the hospital and not
enough well to come home, a pretty lady came and said would I like to
go to her house and stay until I was all better."Did she 'dopt you?"No, of course not, or I could have stayed at her house and she would
be my mother. She didn't want to keep me but only to borrow me so
the children she is aunt to would know about Little Pilgrims and
how lucky it is not to be one their own selves. And at her house,"if you liked something they had for dinner pretty
well, you could have a second helping, if you would say please. You
better believe I said it when there was ice cream. And the children
she was aunt to took turns dividing chocolate candy with me, and the
only trouble was they gave me too much and made me sick most all the
time. What do you think! One day a girl said she wished I was a little
cripple like a boy that was there once, because she liked to be kind
to little cripples and wash their faces. Wasn't she just lovely? Oh,
Marian, I want to be adopted and have a mother like that lady and a
room all my own and everything."But I would rather live with Mrs. Moore,"I've
picked her out for my mother."All right for you, stay here if you want to,"but I'm
not, you just wait and see."I want a mother just like my Nanna,"We must go now,"so good-bye, dear child."I'm going with you,"I want you for my mother."But, don't you see, I have a little girl? What could I do with two?"There, there,"run in to dinner and some day I will come to see
you again. Perhaps they may let you visit my little girl and me before
long. Would you like that?"No, no,"I want you for my mother."Come, Marian, sweetheart, let's go find Mrs. Moore,"Well, I know one sure thing,"I know that same mother will come and get me some time and take me
home and then you will come and live with me--and won't it be lovely!
Let's have some dinner, I'm hungry!"Let me take her Sunday,"I didn't know our Marian was a
singer."Are you going into the country?"No, Mrs. Moore, not this time. We expect to have services in one of
the largest churches right here in the city. We have made special
arrangements and I shall take twenty-five of the best singers in the
Home with me. Marian will have plenty of company."She is young,"Petey Ross,"was two years old
when he made his first public appearance on the platform; Marian is
nearly six."Yes,"that is true and I remember that Petey
Ross was adopted and in less than a week after that first appearance.
Marian,"come here, darling. Do you want to go to a big
church with the children next Sunday and sing one of the songs you and
I sing to the babies?"Yes, Nanna, what for?"Because the superintendent wishes you to. Every Sunday he takes some
of our little boys and girls away to sing in the different churches,
where he tells the people all about the Home for Little Pilgrims."Oh, yes, now I know,"Janey Clark used to go and
sing. She said that was the way to get yourself adopted. I'd like to go
if I don't have to get adopted and if Nanna may go too."All right, Marian, I will go,"and nobody shall
adopt you unless you wish it. Now run back to the babies. Little Ned
and Jakey are quarreling over the elephant. Hurry, Marian, or its ears
will be gone."She'll demand a salary in another year,"I shouldn't know how to get along without her,"and
yet it isn't right to let her grow up here."'I am Jesus' little lamb
  Happy all the day I am,
  Jesus loves me this I know
  For I'm His lamb.'"The Orphan's Prayer,"It is all for the best, oh, my Father,
    All for the best, all for the best."Whatever may be the causes which bring these waifs to our doors,
remember,"the children themselves are not to blame. It is
through no fault of theirs their young lives have been saddened and
trouble has come upon them while your little ones are loved and cared
for in comfortable homes."'For of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven,'"I am going to ask our little girl for another song,"Don't be frightened,"I don't want to be a Little Pilgrim any
more! Oh, I don't want to be a Little Pilgrim any more!"He told me to take you for a walk in the park,"so don't cry, Marian, and we will leave the church quickly as we can.
We will talk about the Little Pilgrims out in the sunshine where the
birds are singing and we can see the blue sky."You say you have a child of your own, Mrs. St. Claire?"I have,"Then Marian will be sure of a playmate."If she behaves herself--perhaps,"What do you mean?"I think I expressed myself clearly,"If Marian
behaves and is worthy of my little daughter's companionship, we may
allow them to play together occasionally."Does she want to 'dopt me?"tell her no, quick--I
got to go back to the nursery. Put me down."I am your Aunt Amelia,"and I have come to take
you to Michigan to live with your Uncle George and me."Where did I get any Uncle George?"It isn't necessary to give a mere child too much information,"it is enough for her to know that she has relatives
who are willing to take her and do their duty by her."Your uncle and aunt,"are visiting in the city; they
were in church last Sunday when you sang. When relatives come for
Little Pilgrims, Marian, we have to let them go."You will not send me away with--her!"Dear child, we must."But I won't go, I won't go,"Oh, you won't send me away, Mrs. Moore
won't let them take me--I won't go! Please let me stay until the pretty
mother comes again and I will ask her to take me and I know she will.
Oh, if you love me, don't send me away with her!"It is just as I told my husband Sunday morning,"I
said the child was subject to tantrums. It is sad to see such traits
cropping out in one so young. Lack of training may have much to do with
it. Other influences----"Pardon me, madam,"you forget that
this little one has been with us since she was six months old. Mrs.
Moore has been a mother to her in every sense of the word. It is only
natural that she dreads going among strangers. She is a good little
girl and we all love her. Hush, sweetheart,"perhaps your aunt may decide to leave you
with us."I--I--I won't--won't go,"I--I won't go, I won't
go!"Are you willing, madam, to give this child to us?"perhaps you may wish to relinquish your claim, under
the circumstances."I never shrink from my duty,"my husband
feels it a disgrace to find his brother's child in an orphan asylum.
She cannot be left in a charitable institution while we have a crust
to bestow upon her. She will take nothing from this place except the
articles which belonged to her mother. I will call for the child at
eight this evening. Good-morning, sir."I--I won't go--I--won't go! You--you needn't come for me!"I--I won't go, I
won't go,"I--I won't go, I won't
go, she'll find out she won't get me!"It is all for the best, oh, my Father,
   All for the best, all for the best."Will they let me come to see you every day?"Will they?"Where is Michigan, anyway? What street car goes out there?"I'm hungry, too,"If you please,"I like cookies, too."You will take what I give you or go without,"you can't be starving after the breakfast you ate in Buffalo."I wish the
cars would stop where the flowers grow,"I'd like to pick
some."The cars will stop where the flowers grow,"When we
get home you will live among the flowers; Marian, will you like that?"Oh, goody!"Oh, I am so glad! May I pick some
flowers?"Indeed you may, and we'll go to the woods where the wild flowers are.
Were you ever in the woods?"I've been in the Public Gardens and on the
Common, though, and I know all about woods."Who told you about the woods?"Nanna--Mrs. Moore."Was she your nurse?"Yes, Uncle George, she was my everybody. I love her more than anybody
else in the world. She is the prettiest, nicest one in the Home."See here, little girl,"will you promise me
something?"Why, yes, what is it?"I want you to do me this one favor. Don't tell any one you were ever
in an orphan's home."What will I talk about?"Take my advice and don't say much about
anything,"You'll find it the easiest way to get
along. But whatever you talk about, don't mention that Home."Who ate it?"Bingen on the
Rhine"What can you do with such a child?"Let her alone,"She knows as much about farming as I do,"I've had a lovely time, Mr. Hired Man,"and to-morrow I'm going to play farm."Good haying weather,"better get your
barns up quick's you can."I'm going to,"it's a lovely game."Well, Mr. Toad,"why don't you hop along? I've come to
make my farm out here where the yarrow grows. Why don't you live in
the garden land? I would if I were you. Don't you know about the cool
tomato groves and the cabbage tents? I've got to clear away this jungle
so the sun may shine upon my farm the way the country man said. You
really must go, so hop along and stop winking and blinking at me."After all, I'll make my farm here on the border-land,"Only, I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Toad, that maybe you won't like.
If you will stay there, you'll have to be an elephant in the jungle.
There, now, I s'pose you are sorry. I say--be an elephant and now you
are one."Now be animals!"Now I guess I'll have a cucumber
animal,"You bad old cucumber, you're no good anyway, nobody could eat you, nor
make a pickle of you, so you may just turn yourself into a giant cow
right off this minute! There you are, standing on four sticks. Now be a
cow, I say."What's the matter with you, old toad?"I
tell you that's a cow, and if you don't believe it you can just get
off my farm quick's you can hop. You're homely anyway, and you turned
yourself back into a toad when I said be an elephant."I guess I'll sit down here and put the sticks in them,"Don't look at me, toad, nobody does,"I'm dreadfully bad
and it doesn't do a bit of good to be sorry. Nobody loves me and nobody
ever will. Aunt Amelia says that Nanna wouldn't love me now. Uncle
George doesn't love me, he says he's disappointed in me! Oh, dear, oh,
dear! Nobody in this world loves me, toad, and oh, dear, I've got to
eat all alone in the kitchen for two weeks, and even the housemaid
doesn't love me and can't talk to me! Oh, dear, what made me do it!"clatter"cackle."It's cucumbers,"What do you mean, you poor little thing?"Don't you remember about the
cucumbers?"Cucumbers,"Never mind, you poor, sweet darling,
we'll have a tea-party this afternoon, you and I,--that old pelican!"Because,"we had a little dish of cream chicken and I
didn't see any pelican, but Annie did say two or three times, 'that old
pelican!'"Little fool,"young one"I hope,"I hope you will be a credit to your uncle and
that you will behave yourself and get to the head of your class and
stay there. Don't give your Uncle George any cause to be ashamed of his
niece. I want to be proud of you."Oh, do you!"Oh, I'll try so hard to be good and
learn my lessons best of anybody. Then will you love me?"Good children are always loved,"Doesn't your
Uncle George love Ella?"She's his little girl,"Sit down, child,"you're my brother's little girl,
aren't you, and you are Ella's cousin, aren't you?"I am sure she ought to be grateful,"with
all she has done for her and such a home provided for her----"Oh, I am, I am,"I'm so glad I've got a
home I don't know what to do, and I'm gratefuller'n anything----"Queer way of showing your gratitude,"a more
undeserving child I never saw."Now don't cry, Marian,"I have a story to read you and Ella,
so sit down and be quiet."Don't expect her to be quiet,"If she would
listen to stories as Ella does, I wouldn't send her to bed. You know
as well as I do that she interrupts and asks questions and gets in
a perfect fever of excitement. Ella behaves like a lady. You never
catch her squirming and fidgeting about, acting like a perfect
jumping-jack----"No,"she goes to
sleep. Don't you, pet?"Go to bed, Marian,"Not a word. I shall not
allow you to add sauciness to disobedience. Go!"That's right,"be a good girl and obey your
aunt promptly. She has your interest at heart, child. Come, kiss Uncle
George good-night."Now kiss little cousin Ella,"I want to tell you,"I'm awful sorry about the cucumbers."You poor little lamb,"I'd run away if I were you."Where would I run to?"Anywhere'd be better than here,"and that woman
calls herself a Christian!"She's a awful cross Christian,"I wouldn't cry if I were you,"You'll only spoil
your pretty eyes and it will do them good to see you cry, you poor
baby. The idea of having a party and making you stay out here!"It's a Club,"I've heard 'em talking about it.
Dorothy Avery and Ruth Higgins belong. I've tried so hard to be good
so I could be in it. They are going to sew presents for poor children
and give them toys and everything they don't want their own selves, and
then when Christmas day comes they're going to have a sleigh ride and
take the things to the poor children. If I was good like Ella, I could
be in it. I used to be good, Lala, truly, I did."There, there, don't cry,"Look a-here! did you ever see
anybody dance the lame man's jig?"Are you ever afraid, Lala, when you wake up all alone in the night?"I never wake up,"Do you, Marian?"Yes, and I'm lonesome without all the little girls. Sometimes I'm so
frightened I pretty nearly die when I'm all alone and it's dark."Little girls,"what little girls? Where did you live
before you came here?"When I was good I lived in a big city, Lala."Tell me about it,"If you'll promise you won't ever tell, I will,"I'll
have to whisper it. I lived in a beautiful orphan's home, Lala."Oh!"Oh, you poor baby."Of course it's dreadful,"but I couldn't
help it, Lala, truly I couldn't; they took me there when I was a baby
and it was a lovely place, only, it was a Home."Do you know anything about your father and mother?"Oh, I guess they're dead--my mother is anyway, and I'm 'fraid about my
father."What do you mean?"Well, Lala, Aunt Amelia always says, what can you expect when you
think what my father was. I guess may be he was a stealer because
Aunt Amelia won't stop talking about the cucumbers and what could you
expect. Maybe he is in prison."No, your father is not in prison, Marion Lee!"Listen. It was your father I heard them talking about with some
callers the other day. I'm sure of it now, because they said the man
was a great deal younger than your uncle----"Oh, tell me, do tell me what you know about my father?"Oh, I don't know much,"but he isn't in prison,
that's one sure thing. He went away to South America years ago to make
his fortune, and they know that all the men who went with him were
killed, and as your father never came back they know he must be dead."What was there bad about that?"Nothing,"only he and your Uncle George had a quarrel.
Your uncle didn't want him to go because he said your father had plenty
of money anyway, and it all came out as he said it would."Oh, Marian Lee!"I'm going
straight back and tell mamma you didn't go to bed when I told you to.
You'll be sorry."Oh, oh, oh!"Both my stockings are full of things for
me. Oh, see the packages! Oh, I am so happy! Just only look at the
presents!"Why don't you look in your stockings, Ella?"Let's
undo our presents together."No, I'd rather wait and see what you'll say when you know what you've
got!"Mamma and I know something."Hush!"Let's see what Santa Claus has brought
Marian. She knows whether she's been a deserving, grateful child or
not."Oh, what fun!"I've got a ball,"I'll let you play with it, Ella."Got one of my own,"Why, why--it's a
potato!"What did you expect?"I guess that was just for a joke."That wasn't never Santa Claus that did that!"Look in the other stocking,"there are real presents in
that one. I guess you will be a good girl now, won't you, Marian? Take
the other stocking down, quick."No,"I don't want any more potatoes. Nobody loves me
and I don't care if they don't."What's all the trouble?"Marian is making a scene and distressing both Ella and me,"She has been highly impertinent and ungrateful. Ella, you
may have the other stocking yourself."But I don't want it,"I want Marian to have it."Then we'll take it to the poor children this afternoon,"They'll be glad to get it. Marian, don't drop what's in your
apron. Now go to your room and think over how you've spoiled the peace
of a family on Christmas morning. I'll bring your breakfast to you
myself."I don't want any breakfast,"Come back,"You tell your aunt you are sorry you
were so naughty, and you may come to breakfast with us. It's Christmas
morning, child, why can't you behave?"I wasn't naughty,"I----"Not another word,"Go to your room, stubborn,
bad child. I can't have such an example continually before my little
Ella. We'll have to put her in a reform school, George, if she doesn't
improve."Oh, Nanna, Nanna, I want you,"Oh, where are you, oh, my
Mrs. Moore?"Dear little
Marian,"Be brave, be good and never
forget the Father in heaven."Why, it's a circus!"I'll have to play the rest of the animals are in cages,"Too bad I didn't get more potatoes. Wish I had the
other stocking."Papa says the things are yours and you must have them,"What makes the stocking look so floppy?"Because,"papa made me take all the potatoes out and
there wasn't much left. You've got a handkerchief in the stocking from
me and one from mamma, and----"Please don't tell me,"I want to be s'prised."Like the selfish child you are,"unwilling to
give your cousin a bit of pleasure."And a box of dominoes from papa and a doll's tea set Lala gave you,"She'll expect a doll next,"I did think Santa Claus would give me one,"but
I had rather have the beautiful tea set. Help me set the table on this
chair, Ella, and we'll play Christmas dinner. I'll let you pour the tea
and----"Ella has no time to play,"Come, little
one, help mamma finish packing the baskets of presents for the poor
children."But I had rather play with Marian's tea set,"You have one of your own, dearest."It isn't as nice as Marian's, though, and I want to stay here and
play."Now you see, George,"now
you see why I cannot allow these children to play together. You can see
for yourself what an influence Marian has over our little Ella. Come,
darling, have you forgotten the sleigh ride? It is time to get ready."Me too?"shall I get ready?"Please, Uncle George,"may I go and visit the poor little
girl that lives in the rich man's house? I want to say 'Wish you a
merry Christmas' to her, and----"Run along, child,"go where you will and have a good time if it is
possible--bless your sunny face."What next?"What next."I never had such a good time at the table in my life,"as
I did at the rich man's house. They asked me to talk, just think of
it--asked me to, and I did and they did and we all laughed. And the
poor little girl isn't poor, only just sick and she belongs to the
folks. The rich man is her father and her name is Dolly Russel and she
was gladder to see me than she ever was to see anybody in her life and
she wants me to come again, and----"And I suppose you told all you knew,"Yes, most, 'specially at the table,"What are sliced birds and how do you play with them?"Well,"can you read, Marian?"Yes, auntie, I can read pretty near anything I try to, but I can't
write very good, not a bit good. Do you have to write in sliced birds?"No,"if you can spell a little that is all
that is necessary. Here is a paper with a list of birds on it we can
put together. Now here is the word jay. A picture of a jay is cut in
three pieces, on one piece is 'J,' on another is 'A' and on the third
is 'Y.' Now hunt for 'J.'"Ella knows her letters,"Come, Ella, hunt for 'J,'
that piece would have a blue jay's head on it, I guess."Oh, what fun!"We'll make all the birds, Ella. I'll
read a name and tell you what letters to hunt for."Go over there and sit down,"I came in to
help Hester divide the game."Divide the game!"Oh, don't do it, please don't,"we want to play with
all the birds together."It seems a pity,"Let them take turns choosing,"It seems to me that will be
perfectly fair. The children might draw cuts for first choice."Ella may be the first chooser,"Hush,"if you keep still Marian won't know
which birds are the prettiest. Aunt Hester and I will help you choose."I guess I'll take that,"I hope, Ella dear, that she won't take the peacock."I'll take the turkey,"She don't know much, she took an old brown turkey. I'll have the
peacock and I want the red bird and the redhead."One at a time, you dear, impulsive child,"Your turn,"I'll take the owl,"Oh, ho! an old owl!"Now
I'll have the redhead! goody! And next time----"Hush,"You mustn't let Marian know what you want
or she'll take it."I choose the wren,"My turn,"Give me the redhead."Choose the flicker next,"Take the parrot
next,"Now, Ella, darling,"the oriole, after Marian
has her turn,"Our baby has
all the prettiest birds."Oh, you poor young one!"She's crying 'cause her birds are all homely,"Of course, she always wants the best,"We'll
sing nineteen verses of number 'leventy 'leven."Number 'leventy 'leven"Come Ye Disconsolate,"'Earth has no sorrow that Heaven cannot
heal.'"Twenty Froggies Went to School"Rebecca at the Well."Marriage at Cana"Poor robin,"I guess you would rather have your own feet.
R-o-b-i-n, I know how to spell you, and I'll put you on your own feet
and I'll give the duck his own head so he can quack."You're nicer than the
bird of paradise, after all,"because I know you so
well. You and I used to be chums because I didn't have any little
girls to play with."You're all so nice and
common looking,"I never saw the owl bird, but we used to
hear him in the woods at night, didn't we, blue jay? He used to go,
'Who--who--whoo--whoo!' We used to see you, old black crow, you always
said 'Caw--caw--caw,' and you dear little wren, how I would like to
hear you sing once more. Where are you all now? Somewhere way down
South, because our teacher says so and when the snow is gone, you'll
come flying back.

" One by one the
birds went south, owl and all, and one by one they flew back to the
orchard in the spring-time, where the wax doll welcomed them, listened
to their songs and scattered strings about for them to use in building
their nests.

It was a pleasant game and Marian was called to the dining-room before
she thought of putting the birds away.

" she
suggested to the wax doll as she threw it a parting kiss.

Had Marian known that the bird of paradise, the peacock and the other
bright ones were laid upon a shelf as birds of no consequence and that
Ella had complained all the forenoon of having nothing to do, she would
have understood why Aunt Hester not only greeted her with a smile, but
said at the same time, "

It was enough that Aunt Hester said it and smiled, without puzzling for
a reason. Surely Marian had chosen the better half of the game when
such loving tones were meant for her. It was wonderful.




CHAPTER XI

THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR


A YEAR passed away, in which time Marian was kept more and more outside
of the family and more and more apart from all ordinary pleasures of
childhood, but in spite of everything she was happy, ever hoping to win
the approval of her aunt and uncle.

Going to school was a never-failing joy because at noon-times and
recess there were girls and boys to play with, and the long walks to
and from school were always a delight to a child who was interested in
everything from a blade of grass to the clouds.

Ella attended a private school near home and was scarcely allowed to
speak to Marian. She had many playmates, but all of them put together
were not half so attractive from her point of view as the little cousin
who played alone. One winter morning Ella told Marian behind the
dining-room door that her grandmother and Uncle Robert were coming to
stay all the spring-time and that Uncle Robert was a little boy only
a few years older than Marian. Ella was delighted, but Marian wished
Uncle Robert was a girl. She had reason for the wish before summer.

Marian was prejudiced against boys for as much as a year after Ella's
uncle went away. He believed it was his privilege to tease little
girls, though in all his life he never had such a chance to torment
any one as he had that spring. It was useless to play tricks on
Ella, because she ran crying to her mother and that made trouble for
Robert: but Marian could appeal to no one and teasing her was safe
and interesting. To hold her doll by the hair while Marian begged and
screamed, was daily amusement until the child learned to leave the doll
in her room. To hide her few books was another pleasure and to frighten
her on every possible occasion until her eyes seemed fairly popping out
of her head, was a victory.

Marian was glad to have some one to play with if that some one was a
tyrant and often before her tears were dry, she was ready to forgive
Robert for teasing her and to join in any game he proposed. One day
he suggested something that shocked Marian. He asked her to steal
sugar. He didn't say steal, he said " and at first Marian didn't
understand. Robert told her to sneak into the pantry after Lala was
through work in the afternoon, take a lump of sugar from the barrel and
give it to him. She wouldn't listen in the beginning, but by dint of
persuasion and threats, Robert succeeded in getting his lump of sugar:
not only one, but many, for stealing sugar became easier as the days
went by and no one caught the small culprit.

Robert's ambition was to be a railroad engineer, and soon after the
sugar stealing began, he made an engine of boxes and barrels in the
locust grove. When it was finished and in running order, he allowed
Marian to be his fireman. At first the child thought it was fun,
but when she had shoveled air with a stick for five minutes without
stopping, while Robert rang the bell, blew the whistle and ran the
engine, she threw down her shovel. "
she declared.

" was the reply.

" protested Marian, "

" was the retort. "

Somewhat flattered, the fireman smiled, shoveled coal until his arms
ached, and then rebelled. " she declared, "

" taunted the engineer. "

Marian was too stunned for words until Robert laughed. Then her face
grew scarlet, and her eyes had a look in them the boy had never seen
before.

" she screamed, leaning towards Robert, anger and
defiance in every line of her slight figure. "

" sniffed the boy.

"

Again the boy laughed. " he demanded.

"

"

" sputtered Marian, but she
shoveled coal. In fact the child shoveled coal the rest of the spring
whenever Robert chose to play engine, until the day his taunts proved
too much and she kicked his engine to pieces, threatening to " if he didn't keep out of the way.

" she screamed from the midst of the wreck, "

Robert walked away whistling " " he called over his shoulder, "

"
was the retort.

Robert walked away so fast Marian was certain he was going to tell
about the sugar and she waited, defiantly at first, then tremblingly.
What would become of her? What would they do? For reasons best known to
himself, Robert didn't mention sugar, and after a few days of suspense,
Marian breathed easier, although she wasn't thoroughly comfortable
until Robert and his mother were on their way home.

A few weeks later Aunt Amelia made a jar of cookies for Ella's birthday
party. She made them herself and put them on a low shelf in the pantry.
Marian asked for a cookie and was refused. She didn't expect to get
it. The more she thought of the cookies, the more she wanted one. She
remembered the sugar. No one but Robert knew about that sugar, and if
she helped herself to a cooky that would be her own secret. Marian took
a cooky and ate it back of the orchard. Her old friends, the chipping
sparrows, flew down for the crumbs that fell at her feet. The little
birds were surprised when Marian frightened them away. She had been so
kind to them they had lost all fear of her.

The second cooky Marian took she ate in the locust grove where she was
much annoyed by the curiosity of a chipmunk. He asked her questions
with his head on one side and his hand on his heart. His chatter made
her angry. What was it to him if she happened to be eating a cooky? She
did wish folks would mind their own business. From that day, Marian
grew reckless. She carried away cookies two or three at a time and
talked back to the birds and the squirrels and all the inhabitants of
the orchard and the locust grove who were not polite enough to hide
their inquisitiveness.

For once in her life, Marian had all the cookies she wished, although
they agreed with neither her stomach nor her conscience. She didn't
feel well and she was cross and unhappy. At last Marian knew that the
day of reckoning was near at hand. She could almost touch the bottom
of the cooky jar when she realized that the cookies had been made for
Ella's party and had not been used upon the table. No one had lifted
the cover of the jar but herself since the day they were baked. It
was a frightful thought. There was no more peace for Marian. Awake or
dreaming, the cookies were ever before her. In school and at home they
haunted her. What should she do, what could she do?

Quietly the child went about the house. She no longer sang nor laughed.
Uncle George wondered, Aunt Amelia rejoiced. She thought Marian's usual
high spirits unbecoming a child dependent upon charity, as Marian had
often heard her remark.

" suggested Uncle George.

"
conceded Aunt Amelia.

Even a shadow of kindness touched Marian's heart. Oh, why had she done
wrong? From the depths of her soul, the child repented. Why had she
been called bad in the days when she tried to be good, and at last when
she was so bad, why would Aunt Amelia declare that there was a great
improvement in her behavior, and why would Uncle George speak to her
almost as pleasantly as he did to Ella? If only she had remembered
the words of Mrs. Moore before it was too late; to " Mrs. Moore also said, " It would be brave to go to
Aunt Amelia and tell her the truth about the cookies. Marian had not
been good, she had not done right and she could not be brave.

Many and many a time the child studied the grim face of Aunt Amelia,
repeating over and over to herself " It seemed to Marian
that if she attempted telling Aunt Amelia of her sin, she would die on
the spot, choke to death, perhaps, trying to get the words out. Her
throat closed tight together at the very thought. It might, under some
circumstances, be possible to tell Uncle George, although to confess
was to be forever an outcast. Neither Uncle George nor Aunt Amelia
would ever love her, nor would she ever be allowed to play with Ella.
All the golden texts Marian had ever learned, haunted her memory. " "
" "
There were many others, so many, the child was sorry she had ever gone
to Sunday-school.

The day of the party was bright and beautiful. All the little girls
came who were invited, Ruth Higgins, Dorothy Avery and Dolly Russel
among the number. Marian went into the sitting-room with drooping head
and misery in her soul, until joining in the games and merriment,
she forgot the cookies and had a good time. Not a thought of trouble
disturbed her pleasure even though she heard Lala setting the table in
the dining-room.

Her conscience awoke only when Aunt Amelia appeared to summon her into
the kitchen. Every bit of color left the child's face. She could hear
nothing clearly because of the ringing in her ears. As she followed
Aunt Amelia through the dining-room the floor seemed rising up at every
step and the candles on the birthday cake danced before her eyes. On
the table in the kitchen was the empty cooky jar, the eloquent witness
of her guilt. On a rosebud plate beside it were less than a dozen
cookies. Marian gazed stupidly at the jar and at the plate of cookies.

" Aunt Amelia's voice
sounded far away. There were such lumps in Marian's throat she couldn't
speak.

" commanded Aunt Amelia, "

Marian's tongue felt paralyzed. Perhaps it was unwilling to do its
owner's bidding. It was certainly hard for that truthful little tongue
to say the one word " Aunt Amelia's face was terrible. "

There was no retreat. Marian nodded her head.

" continued Aunt Amelia, "

It was all Marian did dare to do and her reply was "

Aunt Amelia raised a long forefinger as she said, "

" Lala grew pale when she heard that answer and saw the
terrified eyes of the child.

" she whispered as she passed the trembling sinner on her way
to the dining-room.

Marian looked beseechingly at Aunt Amelia, but her face was hard
and pitiless. The child dared not " " she repeated again and again.

" asked Uncle George upon his arrival.

Marian had not thought of accounting for the loss of the cookies, but
she took a deep breath and made a suggestion. "

The reply wasn't satisfactory. Uncle George frowned and Aunt Amelia
smiled. The smile wasn't the kind she was in the habit of bestowing
upon Ella. It was the sort that froze the blood in Marian's veins. She
sank in a miserable little heap upon the floor and cried and cried.

" said Aunt
Amelia.

Uncle George tried to make the child confess, but his efforts were
vain. She would not. Threats were powerless. The more frightened Marian
became the more vehemently she denied her guilt. Although it was Ella's
birthday, and shouts of laughter could be heard from the sitting-room,
Aunt Amelia produced a certain strap Marian was familiar with through
past experience. " was Mrs. St.
Claire's favorite motto so far as her husband's small relative was
concerned.

" sobbed Marian when she saw the strap,
" Nor could Aunt Amelia nor Uncle George compel the
child to say anything different.

" she insisted over and over, " and they finally believed her.

" commanded Aunt Amelia. "

A smothered sob caught Marian's ear. Lala was crying; and because Lala
cried and was soon after found in Marian's room trying to quiet her,
she was sent away the next day. Tilly was her successor. Before she had
been in the house a week, she openly befriended Marian. " she said, "

" was the reply, "

" Tilly advised, "

Marian shook her head. The time to own up was long passed. She stayed
in her room and ate bread and water a week without protest. On
Sunday afternoon she listened to the story of Ananias and Sapphira
with teeth and fists tightly closed. She heard long speeches on the
fearful consequences of stealing and lying, without a word. Only when
questioned would she say in low spiritless tones, "

When it was all over, and Aunt Amelia and Uncle George gave up trying
to wring a confession from her and the child was simply in disgrace,
her own conscience began its work. It gave her no peace. Marian had
said her prayers every night as Mrs. Moore had taught her when she was
a baby; but she had repeated them quickly with her back turned towards
heaven and had made no mention of cookies. At last, troubled by her
conscience, and not knowing where to turn for comfort, Marian knelt by
her bedside one night and tried an experiment.

" she began, "

That prayer didn't help Marian a bit. She could scarcely get off her
knees when she had said " Her head seemed bowed down beneath a
weight of cookies.

" insisted her conscience, "

" sobbed Marian, but her
conscience was pitiless. It would allow no compromise. " whispered Marian as she crept into bed. No one had ever
kissed her good-night but once since she had left the Home, and now, no
one ever would again. The Father in heaven had turned away His face.
Marian cried herself to sleep as she had many a night before.

In the middle of the night she awoke and sat up in bed, cold and
trembling. Thunder was rolling through the sky and an occasional flash
of lightning made the little room bright one minute and inky black the
next. Perhaps the end of the world was coming when the graves would
give up their dead and the terrible Judge would descend to deal with
the wicked. A crash of thunder shook the house. Marian dived beneath
the blankets, but a horrible thought caused her to sit bolt upright
again. Aunt Amelia had told her that sinners, on the last day, would
call for the rocks and mountains to fall upon them. Perhaps hiding
beneath blankets meant the same thing. Another crash came and a
blinding flash of lightning. Then another and another. Springing from
her bed, Marian ran down the hall to Mrs. St. Claire's room. The door
was closed but the room was lighted.

" she cried, knocking frantically at the door and
keeping her eye upon the crack of light at the bottom.

The response was immediate. Aunt Amelia stepped into the hall and
closed the door behind her. " she said, "

Marian shrank back as a flash of lightning illumined the hall. For one
moment she saw Aunt Amelia, tall and terrible in her white night-dress,
her voice more fearful than the thunder, and her form seeming to
stretch upward and upward, growing thinner and thinner until it
vanished in the awful darkness.

Marian fled, closing the door of her little room and placing a chair
against it. Kneeling by the window, she closed her eyes to shut out
glimpses of the unnatural garden below and the angry sky above. The
thought of sudden death filled her with terror. What would become
of her soul if she died with her sins unconfessed? " she cried, "

Then Marian went back to bed. Her conscience didn't say a word that
time and she went to sleep before the storm was over, long before Ella
was quieted or ever Aunt Amelia closed her eyes.

Marian's first waking thought when she looked out on the fresh
brightness of another day was one of thankfulness. It was good to be
alive. Another second and she groaned. Perhaps she would have been
dead but for that midnight promise, the promise she must keep. Marian
dressed quickly and sought Aunt Amelia before she lost courage. She
wasn't gone long. Back she flew to the little room where her prayer was
short although her sobs were long.

"

There were many thunder-storms that summer and for a while every one
of them frightened Marian. In the night, she would resolve to confess,
but daylight took away her courage. "
Marian argued, " she asked herself.
After thinking of it some time, Marian hit upon a plan that brought her
peace of mind. She wrote the following confession:

"

Having folded this paper, Marian was happier than she had been for
weeks. She felt that she had saved her soul.




CHAPTER XII

MARIAN'S DIARY


"When I asked Uncle George for an empty diary and what you write in
it, he laughed and said he would give me all the paper I wanted to
write things in and I had better put down everything. He said it would
be a good thing for me to write more and talk less, so I guess I will
have the fullest diary of any of the Diary Club. That's our name. Maud
Brown was the one that got up the name. She says everybody belongs to
a Club. Her mother does and her father and her brothers too. Maud says
she has got to be in a Club or she never will be happy. She is only
going to keep weather because she doesn't like to write. Leonore and a
lot of the other girls are just going to keep a few feelings, but I am
going to write down weather and feelings and everything.

"It is too bad about vacation. It is almost here and then I won't have
anybody to play with. Uncle George says he never saw a little girl like
to go to school as well as I do. It really isn't school I like to go
to, it is recesses. I guess he had some other boys to play with when he
was little or he would know. I would like to play with Dolly Russel but
my aunt never will let me go over there and she tells Dolly's mother
'No,' about everything she wants me to do. She did let Ella go, only
they don't invite Ella any more. I wonder if she talked too much, or
broke anything, or why? Lala works over there now, but my aunt told me
not to talk to Lala so I don't dare.

"Another thing about a diary is how nice it will be for your
grandchildren to know what you used to think about and what you used
to do. I can hardly believe that I am the grandmother of my own
grandchildren, but of course it is so.

"I wish I had a white dress to wear the last day of school when I sing
a song alone and speak my piece. I don't like to sing and speak pieces
because I am afraid. I am not going to take my diary to school any more.

"I know it was bad about the cookies, but Ella never can do a cooky
sin because her mother always says to her, 'Help yourself, darling,'
and that's different. Besides that, Ella thinks a tramp did take the
cookies. I will tell her some time because she cried and was sorry I
had so much trouble. Then she will never speak to me again, but it is
better to tell the truth than to do any other way. When I think I am
going to die, sure, then I will tell my aunt if it kills me.

"June 23.--It was the last day of school to-day. I sung my song and
spoke my piece and Dolly Russel's mother kissed me. I wish she was my
mother. I wish I had a mother. I am glad she kissed me. Aunt Amelia
wasn't there. Ella cried because she couldn't go. It didn't rain. You
don't think about weather when it is nice.

"It was awful early and the grass and the trees looked queer and the
birds were singing like everything. Uncle George told me to cheer up, I
was going to a nice place where I would have a good time, and he told
me to write to him every week and he would write to me. He said I
mustn't tell the folks where I was going that I was ever bad. He said
he thought I was a pretty good little girl, and when he put me on the
train and told the conductor where I was going and to take care of me,
because I was his little girl, I put my arms around his neck and kissed
him good-bye. He is a good man. I hope he is my uncle, but I don't know.

"Then he told me he found my diary and that he put it away where nobody
could see it until I got back. He said he thought he had better tell
me to keep my diary out of sight, because that was the style among
diary-writing folks. So I will hide my diary now. I wonder if he read
it. Anyway, I know Aunt Amelia didn't get a chance, because he told me
most particular about how he found it first thing and put it where
it wouldn't get dusty. He says he is my Uncle George. I was afraid
maybe I was just adopted for a niece, and I am not sure yet. He didn't
say he wasn't my adopted Uncle George, and maybe he thought I was his
brother's little girl when I wasn't. The folks I stayed with told Uncle
George I am a lovely child. He didn't look surprised, only glad.

"September 7.--Too many things to play after school. Can't write. Aunt
Amelia makes me get straight to bed after I come to my room at night.
It doesn't seem like night, though. I don't like to go to bed in the
afternoon very well, but after all, I am glad it doesn't get dark
early. I go to sleep in the daytime and wake up in the daytime and the
birds are always singing.

"The book I liked best was full of stories about the Norsemen. They
gave me the book to keep. I take it way up in the top of my favorite
apple-tree and read and read. Sometimes I play I'm Odin and sometimes
I am Thor. I am not so afraid of thunder since I read about Thor. When
it thunders and lightens I play I am an old Norseman and that I really
believe Thor is pounding with his big hammer and that he is scaring
the bad frost giants. I am glad Aunt Amelia says she never read Norse
stories. If she had, she would call me Loki, so there's somebody that's
bad she can't say I am.

"September 9.--One sure thing, I will always tell the truth as long as
I live. I didn't come straight home from school to-night. A lot of us
girls went in the old cemetery and read what's on the tombstones, and
I didn't get home early. I tried to get through the gate when my aunt
wasn't looking, but that would have been what you call good luck. She
took me in and said, 'Where have you been?' I said, 'In the graveyard.'
She said, 'Why didn't you stay there?' I didn't know what to answer so
I kept still. Then my aunt said, 'You can't go out to play,' and that
was all. So I am always going to tell the truth and feel comfortable
inside, no matter what happens. I was more afraid of how I would feel
when it was time to say my prayers if I told a lie, than I was of my
aunt.

"September 11.--Aunt Amelia says I act worse all the time. I don't know
what I did that was bad to-day, but I got scolded all the time.

"September 13.--I came straight home to-night. I wish school began at
daylight and didn't let out till dark, there is so much trouble at
home. Uncle George says it is all on account of me.

"September 15.--Got scolded again.

"September 17.--Got put to bed without any supper on account of sitting
down by the side of the pond to watch a frog. It was a funny frog and
when I had to go to bed, I went to sleep thinking about it. When it was
almost dark Uncle George came and woke me up to give me something to
eat. He didn't scold. I am writing this the next morning for yesterday.

"September 19.--This is Sunday. Uncle George called me in the parlor to
sing for the company and some other folks that came. Aunt Amelia played
on the piano and when she couldn't play any more on account of a cramp
in her wrist, they told me to sing without any music and I did. The
company wiped away some tears, and she said I could sing just the way
my father did when he was a little boy, and then she took me in her lap
and said she thought I looked like my mother. I was going to ask some
questions, but my aunt said not to talk about some things, and then
the company said it was going to rain, she guessed, and would I sing
another song. I did and then my aunt sent me to my room, cross. I mean
she was cross. I felt pretty bad at first but I got over it.

"September 21.--My aunt was away when I got home from school so Ella
said, 'Now's your chance,' and we went into the parlor and she showed
me the picture. I smiled back at the face because it smiled at me. My
father is pleasant and kind.

"September 23.--It happened to-day. I was looking at the picture and
my aunt came in still and caught me. She said dreadful things, and I
cried and I don't know what I did, but she said I was saucy and she
didn't know what to do with me. Uncle George heard the noise and came
in and he scolded, too. I never saw him so cross. I almost thought he
was angry with Aunt Amelia, but of course that was not so. At last he
took my father's picture out of the album and gave it to me, and told
me to keep it, and he told me not to go in my aunt's parlor because
she didn't want me there. I knew that before, because I wanted to take
lessons on the piano same as Ella, and she wouldn't let me.

"October 1.--I am getting so I don't care what happens to me. I don't
come straight home from school any more. I always think I will until I
get started home, and then I dread to come because nobody loves me and
I will get scoldings and things anyway, so I stop and look at toads and
frogs and have a good time before I get home, and sometimes nothing
happens. My aunt says I tell things, but I don't. What would I tell
for? I don't even write sad things in my diary because I don't want to
make my grandchildren cry. It would make me feel pretty bad if I found
out that nobody loved my grandmother.

"October 3.--I tried to count the stars last night, but I couldn't. I
wonder why we don't fall off the earth when China's on top? Aunt Amelia
says I ought to know better than to ask her questions. I do.

"October 21.--You get tired of keeping your diary. I am going to write
a book. Its name will be 'The Little Daughter of Thor.' I guess Thor
never had a little girl, but I am going to write it in a book that he
did, and one day when the little girl was a baby and she was playing
with the golden apples, she fell right through the sky on to the earth.
Then I am going to write about how the little girl watched for the
Rainbow Bridge. She was a little stray child on earth, and even the
giants were kind to her. Of course Thor's little daughter would know
enough to know that the only way home was over the blue and golden
Rainbow Bridge that she couldn't see only sometimes.

"The nicest looking man's picture I ever saw is my father, so I am
going to have him for Thor. My father looks kind and smiling, but he
looks, too, as if he would know how to use Thor's big hammer if the bad
giants tried to cross the Rainbow Bridge. I think it is queer that I
like the god of thunder so well that I will let him have my father's
face in my book.

"If it wasn't for the orchard and the locust grove and the way home
from school, and recesses and my doll and my books, and the birds and
the wild flowers and the lovely blue sky I can see from my window this
minute, and a good many other things, I would wish I had died when I
was a baby. That makes me laugh. It is a nice world to live in after
all. A beautiful world."I've got the diphtheria,"Let me look in your throat,"Why it looks all
right, Marian, just a little red."I don't care, I feel sick all over,"and I tell
you now and then, I know I've got it."Any child,"that could eat the breakfast she
did, isn't at death's door, now you mark my words. She has let her
imagination run away with her. Our darling Ella is far more apt to have
diphtheria than that child. She would be willing to have the disease to
get a little sympathy."Are you ill, Marian?"No, Miss Beck,"What
is the trouble, little girl? Is there anything you would like to do?
Would you like to write on the blackboard?"I wish I could sit in that empty back seat all
day,"You may pack your books, Marian, and sit there
until I miss you so much I shall need you down here again."I'll be awful good,"I
mean, I'll be ever so good."Marian Lee's asleep,"Don't you feel well?"Don't you think you had better go home?"Oh, no,"Oh, she wouldn't let
me come home before school is out."There, there, don't cry,"You may go back to
your seat if you wish."You had better go home, dear,"I am sure you are
ill. Let me help you put on your coat and hood."I can't go home until school is out,"Why not?"Because on account of my aunt. She wouldn't let me come home."But you are ill, Marian."She won't let me be sick,"and I don't dare go
home. You don't know my aunt. I guess I feel better. I want to go where
it isn't so hot."Perhaps you will feel better if you
go out to play,"Form lines."Diphtheria."I could never stir again,"Come in this way,
Marian,"Don't come any further,"I have callers in the parlor. What
are you home in the middle of the afternoon for?"I've got the diphtheria,"I guess she knows I'm sick now,"Have patience a minute more, little girl, and it will be all right,"Oh, don't leave me,"please don't, Uncle George, I'm
awful sick and I'm afraid when I'm alone."I'm going for the doctor,"lie still and trust Uncle
George."Am I going to die right off?"Oh, if I can only
live I'll be so good. I'll never do anything bad again. Tell me quick,
have I got to die to-night?"Oh, I'm
afraid to die,"I don't dare to die. Aunt Amelia says I
won't go to heaven and I'm afraid. I don't want to tell what she does
say. Oh, Uncle George, don't let me die. Tell the doctor you want me to
get well. Tell him I'll be good."But if I'm going to die, I've got to tell her,"Child, child, don't speak of cookies,"that was all right
long ago;"Where is my aunt?"Doesn't she come up here?"Your aunt and little cousin,"stay by themselves
in the front part of the house down-stairs. They are afraid of the
diphtheria."Am I going to die?"Why--why we hope not,"I only
wanted to know,"I'm not afraid any more. I only hope I
won't be a grown up angel the first thing. I should like to be a little
girl with a mother and live in one of the many mansions for a while,
like other children. I'd pick flowers in the front yard."February 29.--I had diphtheria this winter and it was a good thing. I
got well and now I am having the best time that ever was written down
in a diary. I have changed my mind about being an author. I won't have
time to write books. There is too much fun in the world."Home, Sweet Home."O-oh, I know what will be great fun
  And I'll tell you what it is,
  We will play go to gay old concerts,
  And take our children too.

  "Fun fu-un-fun, fun-fun,
  I guess it will be fun-fun,
  I guess it will be fun."Way down upon the Suwanee River."'There is a happy land, far, far
away.'"Far, far away"Let them sing."No-o-o,"They won't tell-ell me-e a thing now-ow days
    But a long time ago-go
    They used to talk about everything
    Right before me-e, only the trouble is-s,
    I was such a little goo-oose
    I didn't think much about it."Do you know anything about my mother-other-other?"No-o-o,"I only know-o that my mother-other
    Didn't know your mother-other, ever in her li-ife,
    But I do-oo remember-ember that the folks at that Ho-o-me
    Had some things that used to belong-long
    To your mother-other.
    And they are packed away-way somewhere in the house.
    I guess they are in the attic-attic,
    But of course I don't know-o.

    "

    " Marian's voice chimed in,
    "

" called Aunt Amelia.

" replied Marian, who feared that concerts were over
for the season when she heard the question.

" responded Aunt Amelia, "

The musicians laughed softly, and there were no more solos that evening.

The following day Ella and Aunt Amelia went visiting and in the middle
of the forenoon, when Tilly was busily working in the kitchen, Marian
climbed the attic stairs with determination in her eye. An old portrait
of George Washington on the wall at the landing seemed to question
her motives. " remarked the child, " Marian gazed steadily at the face in
the old oaken frame, and meeting with no disapproval there, passed on,
leaving the Father of her Country to guard the stairway.

There were numerous trunks, boxes, barrels and an old sea-chest in the
attic. Marian hesitated a moment before deciding to try the yellow
chest. Her knees shook as she lifted the cover. At first she was
disappointed; there seemed to be nothing but blankets in the chest.
Then a bit of blue silk peeping from beneath the blankets caught her
eye and Marian knew she was searching in the right place. From the
depths of the chest she drew forth a bundle, unfolded it and beheld a
beautiful gown of pale blue silk, trimmed with exquisite lace. Tears
filled her eyes as she touched the shimmering wonder. She had never
seen anything like it.

" she whispered, and kissed the round neck as
she held the waist close in her arms. "
Marian would gladly have looked at the dress longer but time was
precious and there was much to see. Embroidered gowns of purest white,
bright sashes and ribbons were there, and many another dainty belonging
of the woman whose name was never mentioned in the presence of her
child. In a carved ivory box, were jewels. Marian closed it quickly,
attracted by a bundle at the bottom of the chest. She had found it at
last. The picture of her mother. It was in an oval frame, wrapped in a
shawl of white wool.

" cried Marian, as the
lovely face became her own. Though the child might never again see the
picture, yet would it be ever before her.

When she dared stay in the attic no longer, Marian kissed the picture,
wrapped it in the white shawl and laid it tenderly away. As she did so
she noticed for the first time a folded newspaper on the bottom of the
chest. Inside the paper was a small photograph. Marian tiptoed to the
attic stairs and listened a moment before she looked at the photograph.
Then she uttered a low exclamation of delight. There was no doubt that
the face in the oval frame was her mother's, for the small picture was
a photograph of Marian's father and a beautiful woman. " whispered the child, "I wonder what they saved an old newspaper so carefully for?"Maybe I had better look at it. What does this mean? 'Claimed
by Relatives,' who was claimed, I wonder? Oh! I was! Now I'll find out
all I want to know because, only see how much it tells!"No use writing down what you are sure to remember,"and
besides that, it is all too sad and finished. I am going outdoors and
have some fun."Good-morning, Merry Sunshine."Where are you going, sweetheart?"Just down here by the fence to get some myrtle leaves,"If I were you, Miss Marian Lee,
    I'll tell you what I'd do,
    I'd pack my doll and everything I wanted to take with me,
    Because in the very early morning,
    You're surely going away
    To a country town where you will stay
    Until school begins again.

    "

Marian smiled but dared not reply, especially as the singer broke
down and laughed and Aunt Amelia knew there were no funny lines in
"

The hint was enough. Marian straightened her affairs for a journey and
a long absence from home.




CHAPTER XV

LITTLE SISTER TO THE DANDELION


MARIAN asked no questions the following morning until she was on her
way to the station with Uncle George. " she finally
ventured.

" was the reply. "

" repeated Marian, "

"

"

" interrupted the man, "

"

"

"

"

" the child remarked with dignity.

" added Uncle George, turning away to hide a smile.

Just as the train pulled into the station, Marian caught a glimpse of a
small blue butter-fly. It fluttered away out of sight as Uncle George
said " " exclaimed
Marian, and those were the last words Uncle George heard as he left
her. The passengers smiled, but Uncle George looked thoughtful. There
was so much to be seen from the car windows and so many folks to
wonder about within the car, the journey seemed short.

Two young ladies welcomed Marian at the train, hugging and kissing her
the minute the small feet touched the platform. " laughed the child.

" replied Miss Ruth Golding. "

" agreed Miss Kate, "

" echoed Marian, "

" warned Miss Ruth; "

" exclaimed Marian. "

" predicted Miss Kate.
"

" asked Marian.

" explained Ruth.
"

Marian ran ahead to throw her arms around Mrs. Golding's neck. " she cried. "

" was the response. "

" laughed Marian. "

" Mrs. Golding commanded. "

" commented Marian; "

"

"

"

" was the quick reply.

There were callers in the late afternoon, so Marian wandered out alone.
She had gone but a short distance down the lane when she saw dandelions
ahead. She gathered a handful of the short-stemmed blooms and walked
on. In the distance she heard a bluebird singing. Marian ran to find it
and was rewarded by a flash of glorious blue as the bird sought a tree
across the river. Marian followed it as far as she could, being obliged
to stop at the river's bank. As she stood gazing after the bird, she
was startled by a woman's voice.

"

Turning, Marian saw a young lady sitting on a log near by. " the child replied, and would have hidden the bunch behind
her if the young lady had not forbidden it.

" she said; "

Marian wonderingly obeyed.

" continued the
young lady.

"

The stranger passed Marian a microscope and asked her to tell what she
saw.

" said Marian; "

" asked the young lady,
smiling so pleasantly Marian straightway decided that she was pretty.

"

"

" was the reply, "

Miss Smith repressed her curiosity, believing that Marian was the
little girl the Goldings were to meet that day.

" said she.

" Marian explained, "

" Miss Smith suggested.

"

Miss Smith laughed with Marian. " said she,
"

" agreed Marian. "

" Miss Smith remonstrated. "

" objected
Marian; "

"

" questioned Marian.

" said Miss Virginia Smith, smiling as she spoke, "

"

"

" exclaimed Marian, "

" was the laughing response. "

" suggested Marian.

" was the reply. "

"

"

"

"

"

"

"

"

" grumbled Marian, "

"

"

" sympathized Miss Smith. "

" protested Marian. "

" said Miss
Smith. "

" interrupted Marian, "

"

" exclaimed Marian. "

"

"

" agreed Miss Smith, "

" was Marian's comment.




CHAPTER XVI

PROFESSOR LEE, BOTANIST


MISS VIRGINIA SMITH knew how to teach arithmetic. Fractions lost
their terror for Marian, even the mysteries of cube root were eagerly
anticipated. History became more than ever a living story to the child,
and geography was a never failing joy. On rainy days every stream and
puddle between Mrs. Golding's home and the schoolhouse was named, and
if several Mississippi Rivers emptied into Gulfs of Mexico, and if
half a dozen Niles overflowed their banks over the country road, what
difference did it make? When the sun shone bright and only dew-drops
glistened in the shade, Marian saw deserts and plains, mountains and
volcanoes along the dusty way.

For a time the game of geography became so absorbing Marian played it
at the table, forming snowy peaks of mashed potatoes and sprinkling
salt upon the summits until the drifts were so deep, only the valleys
below were fit to be eaten. Brown gravy was always the Missouri River
winding its way across Marian's plate between banks of vegetables. Ice
cream meant Mammoth Cave. A piece of pie was South Africa from which
the Cape of Good Hope quickly disappeared. However hungry Marian might
be, there was a time when she ate nothing but continents and islands.

Whatever Miss Virginia Smith tried to teach the country children,
Marian Lee appropriated for herself. She listened to all recitations
whether of the chart class or the big boys and girls. Perhaps if Marian
had attended more strictly to her own lessons, she might have made the
kind of a record she thought would please Uncle George. As it was,
Jimmie Black " in the spelling class more times than she
did, the first month. Belle Newman had higher standings in arithmetic
and geography, and some one carried off all the other honors.

Marian, however, knew something about botany before the end of May,
and she gloried in the fact that she could name all the bones in her
body. Mr. Golding was proud of her accomplishment and once when she
went with him to see old Bess newly shod, he asked her to name the
bones for the blacksmith: and the blacksmith thought it wonderful that
a little girl knew so much. " remarked the
child, "

" asked the blacksmith.

" was the reply, "

" protested the blacksmith.

Marian shook her head. " she said, "

Old Bess flourished her tail in the blacksmith's face and the man spoke
to her next instead of to Marian. He wasn't the best blacksmith and he
knew it. Some years afterwards when he had won an enviable reputation,
he told Mr. Golding that the first time he thought of trying to do
unusually good work was when the little Lee girl asked him if he tried
to be the best blacksmith in the country.

Concerning botany, Miss Smith knew that Marian was interested in the
wild flowers and had told her many a legend of wayside blooms when
walking with her through the fields and across the hills: but she
had no idea how much the child had learned from listening to the
recitations of the botany class, until the Saturday morning when the
wax doll went to school. Miss Smith happened to pass the corn-crib
unnoticed by teacher or pupil.

The doll was propped in an attitude of attention among the ears of corn.

" the instructor was saying, "Don't think, little girl, because we are skipping straight over
to flowers this morning that you are going to get out of learning
beginnings. We're taking flowers because it is summer. Of course you
know this is a strawberry blossom I hold in my hand. Well, if it
wasn't for strawberry blossoms you couldn't have strawberry shortcake,
remember that. That's the principal thing about strawberries. This
little circle of white leaves is called the corolla. Now don't get the
calyx mixed with the corolla as some children do. I tell you it makes
me feel squirmy to hear some big girls recite. You ought to see this
flower under a microscope. I guess I'll go and ask Professor Smith for
hers."Marian Lee,"you shall join the botany class next
Monday morning and I'll give you a book of mine to study."What will the big girls say?"About as much as your doll in there,"I won't expect too much of you, Marian, but you may as well
be in the class and learn all you can."I won't have the most perfect lessons of anybody in the class,"because the big girls know so much; but
I'll try and have the best specimens in my herbarium. I can do that, I
am sure. I have just got to do something better than any one else in
school before I go home."Every one of the big girls can press specimens better than
I can. Their violet plants look like pictures but mine look like hay.
I guess Uncle George will be discouraged. I don't do anything best. A
robin is building a nest just outside the window where my seat is in
school and I forgot to study my spelling lesson. Of course I missed
half the words. It was the robin's fault. She ought to keep away from
school children."Knowledge is Power."K"P"What is it?"Will you tell which one of us has the best looking page when we get
through with 'Knowledge is Power'?"Knowledge is Power,"Did you try your best, children?"Well, then, I wonder what is the trouble?"I am
ashamed of your work, children, it seems as if you could do better."Which is best?"I think it is pretty
discouraging,"when you try your best and do the worst."We will begin something new,"Next week we will
write compositions on wild flowers and to the one who does the neatest
looking work, I will give the little copy of 'Evangeline' I have been
reading to you. It will make no difference whether the compositions are
long or short, but the penmanship must be good. Every one of you knows
the spring flowers for we have had them here in school and have talked
about them every day."Will we have to write in our copy-books just the same?"No,"you may work on your compositions all the time we
usually write in the copy-books, and remember, it doesn't make a bit of
difference how short your compositions are."No flower is so pretty as the anemone that blooms on the windy hill."Is that long enough?"Yes, that will do,"Is it fair if I copy off her composition?"and
practice writing it? I can't make up one."That sentence will do as well as any other,"I
simply wish you to write something you choose to do."I'll copy it for you,"I don't
really think anemones are the prettiest flowers, Tommy, but they are
easy to write; no ups or downs in the word if the flowers themselves do
dance like fairies all the day long."I wish't you'd write me a composition,"I will,"after school calls, but now, come on out
and play."Clover loves a sunny home."That's easy, Frankie, because 'y' is the only letter below the line.
You can say sun-kissed if you would rather keep it all above the
line. If I don't get the book, may be you will. I hope you won't be
disappointed, though. I would try if I were you. Something may happen
to me before next week, you never can tell."_Wild Flowers, by Marian Lee._

"In an old flower legend book that tells about things most folks don't
know, I found out what you were always sure of before you knew it. The
anemones are fairy blossoms. The pink on the petals was painted by the
fairies and on rainy nights elves hide in the dainty blooms.

"Some folks laugh at you when you hunt for four-leaved clover, but you
can never see the fairies without one nor go to the fairy kingdom.

"You most always get your feet wet when you go after marsh marigolds,
but it can't be helped. They are yellow flowers and live where they can
hear the frogs all the time. I wonder if they ever get tired of frog
concerts. I never do, only I think it is mournful music after the sun
goes down. It makes you glad you are safe in the house.

"If you ever feel cross, the best thing you can do is to go out where
the wild flowers grow. You will be sure to hear birds sing and you may
see a rabbit or a squirrel. Anyway, you will think thoughts that are
not cross."Evangeline"I know my writing isn't good,"Only see how it goes up-hill and down-hill and how funny the letters
are."I haven't done anything better than any one else in school yet,"but I am learning all kinds of things and having the best time
ever was. I want to go to the country school until I graduate. I'll be
ready for college before you know it if you will only let me stay.

"I would tell you who I play with only you would forget the names of so
many children. When I can't find any one else I go to the mill to see
the miller's boy. That isn't much fun because the miller's boy is half
foolish. His clothes are always covered with flour and he looks like
a little old miller himself. He jumps out at you when you don't know
where he is and says 'Boo!' and scares you almost out of your wits, and
that makes his father laugh. I tried to teach him to read but I didn't
have good luck. He read 'I see the cat' out of almanacs and everything.

"I went outside and watched the big wheel of the mill when the boy and
his father went away, but it wasn't any time before the boy came back
and said the old miser wanted to see me. Of course I went as fast as
I could go, and when I got to the hut, the miller asked me if I could
say any Bible verses, and if I could to say them quick because the old
miser wanted somebody to read the Bible quick--quick. I thought it was
queer, Uncle George, but I was glad I had learned so much out of the
Bible.

"I don't know just when the old miser died, Uncle George, nobody talks
about it where I can hear a word. Mrs. Golding says when I grow up
I will be glad that I could repeat the Twenty-third Psalm to a poor
old man who hadn't any friends. She says it isn't true that he was a
miser, he was just an unfortunate old man. I wonder if he was anybody's
grandfather? You never can tell.

"Only think, Uncle George, how lonesome I will be when I get home where
I am not acquainted. The only sad thing that has happened here all
summer is that the miser died, and of course you know that might be
worse.

"You don't know how hard it is, Uncle George, to do something better
than anybody else. You might think it would be easy, but somebody
always gets ahead of you in everything, you can't even keep your desk
the cleanest. Some girls never bring in anything from the woods, so of
course they can keep dusted.

"Your loving niece,
   "




CHAPTER XIX

THE MOST TRUTHFUL CHILD IN SCHOOL


IN the early morning the schoolhouse was a quiet place, and there Miss
Virginia Smith went to study. No one knew why she worked so hard,
though Marian often wondered. It was her delight to please Miss Smith,
and when the teacher waited several mornings until a certain mail train
passed and the letters were distributed, Marian offered to stop at the
post-office and get the mail.

" asked Miss Smith.

" promised Marian. "

Usually the postmaster gave Marian something to carry to Miss Smith,
and all went well until a few days before school closed. Elizabeth
Gray called for Marian that morning and together they went to
the post-office where they waited on tiptoe for the postmaster to
distribute the mail. There was one letter for Miss Smith, a thin,
insignificant looking letter.

" declared Elizabeth; "

" agreed Marian, "

"

" suggested Marian. "

" asked Elizabeth. "

"

"

"

" insisted Elizabeth.

"

"

"

"

"

Elizabeth walked on in silence for a few moments until seized by an
inspiration. " she remarked; "

"

" and
Moscoso, laughing merrily, swung his dinner pail in a perfect circle.

" continued De Soto; "Let's play all the trees are Indians and all the little low bushes are
wild beasts. The fences will do for mountains and I guess we'll think
of other things to play as we go along. We'll have trouble with our
soldiers, of course, they always do when they are hunting for gold. All
these fields and woods, no, not woods, forests, I mean, are what you
call the interior. Dandelions and buttercups will be gold that we steal
from the Indians. We'll be awfully disappointed because this isn't a
gold country like Peru, but we will take all there is, and I think we
had better talk some about going home to Spain. Of course I don't know
I'm going to die of fever beyond the Mississippi and you don't know
you'll have to go back to the coast without me. I wish we could talk a
little bit of real Spanish, don't you, Elizabeth?"Hush,"I hear Indians. Let's play the
wind in the trees is Indian talk, Marian."Sure enough, Elizabeth, we must advance cautiously, General Moscoso,
they always 'advance cautiously' in the books, or else 'beat a hasty
retreat.' We won't dare play retreat or we'll never get to school. Oh,
they're friendly Indians, General, how fortunate."Elizabeth Jane Gray, where's that letter?"Have you lost it?"If I haven't, where is it?"Can't you remember anything about it?"when you
had it last, or anything?"No, I can't. Let's go straight back over the road and hunt. I must
have dropped it and perhaps we may find it if we look. I can't believe
it is really lost. Oh, Elizabeth, what shall I do if it is? I adore
Miss Smith and what will she think?"She won't think anything if you keep still, Marian; the letter was
only an old advertisement, anyway."Oh, dear, dear, dear!"This is dreadful. I don't see
a thing that looks like a letter anywhere. I am going to climb a tree
and look way off over the fields."We'll hunt at noon,"and if I were you I wouldn't say a word about it."But Elizabeth, what if she asks me if there was a letter?"Fib,"It's enough to make anybody, Elizabeth."You'll be a goose, Marian, if you own up. I won't tell on you and the
letter didn't amount to anything, anyway. Let's run for all we're worth
and get there before school calls if we can. Sure's we're late she'll
ask questions."No letter yet!"You're going to get out of this as easy's pie, just keep your mouth
shut,"I shall have to tell,"Don't be silly,"Miss Smith,"you
had a letter this morning and I lost it."You dear child, I am so glad you told me,"Now tell
me what was printed on the envelope if you can remember."It is the one I was expecting,"You're going to get your scolding at last,"I
told you not to tell."Can you keep a secret for a few days,
Marian?"Come here, dear, and read the letter you brought
me this morning."Are you
going?"Going,"that is the position I have long wished
for, Marian. Only think how I shall enjoy teaching botany and English
in a boarding-school. You see what they say, Marian, they want an
immediate reply or it will be too late. If you hadn't told me about the
letter you received the other day, I should have lost the position. I
imagined what the letter was and sent for a copy. If you hadn't told me
the truth, Marian, only think what a difference it would have made!"I just have to tell the truth,"I believe you, dear, I never saw a more truthful child in my life."Would you dare say I am the most honest child in school?"Will you write it
down and sign your name?"Well, you are the queerest mortal,"Marian Lee is the most truthful pupil in my school.

 "

" Marian explained. "

Uncle George arrived on Friday in time to have a long talk with Miss
Smith before she left on the evening train. Had Marian known the nature
of their conversation, she might not have cried so bitterly when the
hour of parting came.




CHAPTER XX

MORE CHANGES


MARIAN had been home a month when Uncle George decided to send her to
boarding-school.

" he remarked to the child, "

The man's tones were savage and Marian cried. Tears always angered
Uncle George, and when Uncle George was angry with Marian, Aunt Amelia
generally sighed and straightway did her duty: and Aunt Amelia's duty
towards Marian consisted in giving a detailed account of the child's
faults and a history of her sins. She never failed to mention cookies.
When Marian was wise, she kept still. If she ventured a remonstrance
serious trouble was sure to follow. Out in the fresh air and sunshine,
the child managed to be happy in spite of everything: but within the
four walls of Aunt Amelia's home it took courage to face life. She
didn't know that her uncle had written to Miss Virginia Smith.

" confided
Ella. " Ella was as good as
her word. " was her next
secret announcement, "

One morning Marian went to her room after breakfast and sat long by the
open window, wondering what would become of her and why she had been
taken from the Little Pilgrim's Home by an aunt who didn't want her.
Tears splashed upon the window sill. Marian wiped her eyes quickly.
Young as she was, the child realized how dangerous it is to be sorry
for oneself. Without a backward glance, Marian walked from the room and
closed the door she was never to open again. When she came home from
school that night, the child played in the orchard until supper-time.
Then she wondered why Aunt Amelia didn't send her to her room. An hour
passed before the woman looked at the clock and spoke. Instead of the
words Marian expected to hear, Aunt Amelia said calmly:

"

" demanded the child,
beginning to tremble so she could scarcely stand.

" replied Aunt Amelia, "

Marian shot a grateful look towards Ella, who was sobbing in a corner.
But for the little cousin's assurance, Marian would have believed she
was about to start for the long dreaded reform school. Nevertheless
it was a shocking thing to be suddenly torn from every familiar sight
and to be going so blindly into the unknown. Marian looked appealingly
at Aunt Amelia and Uncle George before she broke down and cried. Aunt
Amelia's face was stony, Uncle George looked cross and annoyed.
Marian's grief became wild and despairing.

" she sobbed,
"

" said Uncle George.

" Aunt Amelia put in, while
Marian held her breath. Would she get the picture or not? A word might
ruin her chances, so she kept still, trying hard to smother her sobs.

" demanded Uncle George. Aunt
Amelia went.

Marian was disappointed when she saw the small photograph of her father
and mother. She wished for the face in the oval frame. She would have
been more disappointed had she never seen the photograph, because
instead of giving it to the child or allowing her to look at the
picture, Aunt Amelia wrapped it in a piece of paper and put it in her
own satchel.

Outside in the cool, silent night, Marian stopped crying. There was
comfort in the steadily shining stars. During the first long hours on
the sleeping car, Marian tossed, tumbled and wondered where she was
going. Asleep she dreamed of reform school: awake she feared dreams
might come true. When trains rushed by in the darkness the child was
frightened and shivered at the thought of wrecks. At last she raised
her curtain and watched the stars. Repeating over and over one verse
of the poem she had recited the last day of school in the country, she
fell peacefully asleep. There were no more troubled dreams nor startled
awakenings. When Marian opened her eyes in the morning, the verse still
haunted her memory.

    "




CHAPTER XXI

MARIAN REMEMBERS HER DIARY


"Perhaps the reason I don't like silent hour is because I used to have
so many of them at home and now because I haven't any roommate I have
to stay alone the whole hour. I don't know what to do with myself and
that is why I am going to keep a diary again.

"Dolly says her new roommate is nice, but she's too old and besides
that she's engaged. Dolly told me all about it.

"If I hadn't passed the entrance examinations here I couldn't have
stayed. Dolly and a girl whose name is Janey somebody and I are the
only little girls here. Janey is tall and wears her hair in a long,
black braid. Mine's Dutch cut. Dolly Russel's is Dutch cut too. Janey
calls us little kids and she tags around after the big girls. We don't
care.

"October 17.--The new girl has come and they have put her with me.
She's homesick. Her father brought her and then went right away. I
didn't see him. I think I shall like the new girl. Her name is Florence
Weston and she has more clothes than the Queen of Sheba. Miss Smith
helped her unpack and I felt as if I would sink through to China when
the new girl looked in our closet. It is a big closet and the hooks
were nearly all empty because I haven't anything much to hang up. I'll
never forget how I felt when the new girl said to me, 'Where are your
dresses?' Before I could think of anything to say, Miss Smith sent me
for the tack hammer and I didn't have to answer.

"October 20.--That Janey is a queer girl. She won't look at me and I
really think it is because I haven't any pretty dresses. She is in our
room half the time, too, visiting with Florence. They are great chums
and they lock arms and tell secrets and laugh and talk about what they
are going to do next summer and where they are going Christmas and
everything. I wish more than ever that I had Dolly for my roommate.
I wouldn't be surprised if her father is richer'n Florence Weston's
father.

"October 21.--I like Florence Weston. She is not a bit like that proud
Janey.

"November 2.--What did I tell you? I knew she'd be sorry. They won't
let Janey room with Florence. Florence says she's glad of it. I suppose
it is on account of hooks. Janey couldn't let her have more than half
the hooks in the closet.

"The only reason Florence doesn't want to room with Janey is because
she lived in an orphan's home. She says you never can tell about
adopted children and that maybe Janey's folks weren't nice, and anyway,
that if she ever lived in an orphan's home she would keep still about
it.

"I could tell Florence Weston I guess that my father left my mother
plenty of money and she wasn't poor, and after she died the folks she
boarded with stole it all and pretty near everything she had and then
packed up and went away and left me crying in the flat, and it just
happened that some folks on the next floor knew what my name was and a
few little things my mother told them.

"November 4.--Sunday. The queer things don't all happen in books. I am
glad I have a diary to put things in that I don't want to tell Miss
Smith nor Dolly. Just before dark I was in the back parlor with a lot
of girls singing. When we were tired of singing we told stories about
our first troubles. I kept still for once, I really couldn't think
what my first one was anyway. Two or three girls said that when their
mothers died, that was their first sorrow, but Florence Weston said
that her first one was funny. She couldn't remember when her own father
died so she can't count that. The father she has now is a step one.

"November 25.--Florence has gone to Chicago to stay until Monday
morning because to-morrow is Thanksgiving day and her folks wanted to
see her. Florence has two baby brothers and one little sister.

"Janey C. Hopkins is going home this afternoon and the Kansas girl
is going with her. There will be ten girls all alone in the big
dining-room here to-morrow. I guess they will feel queer. I know one
thing, I would rather stay here with nobody but the matron Christmas,
than to go home, and I am glad Aunt Amelia says it would be foolish for
any one to take such a long journey so I could be home for the holidays.

"




CHAPTER XXII

FLORENCE WESTON'S MOTHER


MARIAN was studying Monday morning when Florence returned from Chicago.
She burst into the room like a wind blown rose, even forgetting to
close the door until she had hugged Marian and hugged her again.

" she commanded, "

Marian closed her eyes while Florence dived into her satchel for a
small package.

"

" was the retort, "

"

"

"

" questioned Florence, as Marian stood
speechless before three miniatures in gold frames. "Why, Marian! what's the matter, what makes you cry when you look at
mamma's picture?"Nothing, Florence, only I want a mother myself, I always wanted one."You poor young one!"it must be dreadful not to
have a mother."It's like the Desert of Sahara!"You will see your mother
again soon."I know it, Marian, only think, three weeks more and then the holidays.
Are you going home Wednesday night or Thursday morning?"I am not going home until June,"Can you stand it as long as that, Marian?"You are the queerest girl,"you cry when I don't
see anything to cry about and you laugh when I should think you would
cry."If they were mine,"I would never leave them. I would rather be a dunce than go away to
school."Then my father wouldn't own you,"Mamma
says she's afraid he wouldn't have any patience if I disgraced him
in school. You ought to belong to him, Marian, he would be proud of
you. You know your lessons almost without studying and you have higher
standings than the big girls. You've been highest in all your classes
so far, haven't you?"Yes,"except in geometry, but what of it? Nobody
cares."Don't your folks at home? Aren't they proud of you?"I used to hope they would be, Florence; but I tell you, nobody cares."Well, haven't you any grandfathers or grandmothers or other aunts or
uncles?"I am not acquainted with them,"My uncle hasn't any
folks, only distant cousins."That's just like my father,"His folks are all
dead, though I have heard him mention one half brother with whom he
wasn't friends. Mamma won't let me ask any questions about him. But,
Marian, where are your mother's folks?"Well, you
see,"they don't live near us."Go home!"I shouldn't
think she would want to go home! You see the St. Claires live right
across the street from us and I have seen things with my own eyes that
would astonish you. Besides that, a girl that used to work for the St.
Claires, her name is Lala, works for us now, and if she didn't tell
things that would make your eyes pop out of your head! Shall I tell
you how they used to treat that poor little Marian? She's the dearest
young one, too--Lala says so--only mamma has always told me that it's
wretched taste to listen to folks like Lala."Yes, do tell me,"Oh, her uncle and her little cousin are all right,"they are not like the aunt."I know what I shall do,"Oh, I know! I shall tell
mamma all about Marian and ask if I may invite her to Chicago for the
holidays. She would have one good time, I tell you. I like Marian
anyway, she is just as sweet as she can be. I should be miserable if
I were in her place, but she sings all the day long. My little sister
would love her and so would brother and the baby. I am going straight
to my room and write the letter this minute."Mrs. St. Claire won't let Marian go,"you just wait and
see. She doesn't want Marian to have one speck of fun."I know what I will do,"I will ask
Miss Smith to write to Uncle George. Maybe then he will let me go.
Nobody knows how much I want to see your mother."I think I do,"I have told my mother how
you worship her miniature. I shouldn't be surprised to come in some day
and find you on your knees before it. My mother is pretty and she is
lovely and kind, but I don't see how anybody could care so much for her
picture. Most of the girls just rave over brother, but you don't look
at him. Just wait until you see him, Marian. I'll teach him to call you
sister. He says 'Ta' for sister."Oh, I wish you would,"I love babies and I never was
anybody's sister of course. He is just as cunning as he can be. I am
going now to ask Miss Smith to write to Uncle George. She can get him
to say yes if anybody can."Anything's better than going home,"and
what's the use of crying about what you can't help. I ought to be glad
it isn't June."My mother is prettier,"but she is dead and as long as I live I never can see her. Perhaps I
may see this other mother and perhaps she may love me. I shall have
to put my picture away because it will get faded and spoiled, and I
think I will pretend that Florence Weston's mother is my mother. Then I
won't feel so lonesome. I never thought of pretending to have a mother
before."We're all
going back West just as soon as school closes,"Next winter we will be home."The Witch's Daughter"Now Uncle George,"please be sure and come because I want somebody that
is my relation to be here. Florence Weston says her father would come
from Honolulu to see her win a prize, so please come, Uncle George, or
maybe Florence will think nobody cares for me."They saw you just the same,"and
mamma said if it hadn't been so late she would have come up to our room
to-night, but she thought they had better get back to the hotel and
you and I must settle down as quickly as we can. I can hardly keep my
eyes open."Isn't it too bad!"They are
going to present the prize in the dining-room at breakfast and my
father and mother won't be up here until time for the exercises in the
chapel. I wanted them to see you get the prize. I'm so disappointed.
Never mind, though, you will see mamma all the afternoon, because she
is going to pack my things. We leave to-morrow. I am going down-town
with papa and mamma when we get through packing and stay all night. You
will have the room all to yourself. What? are you crying, Marian? Why,
I'll come back in the morning and see you before I go. I wouldn't cry
if I were you!"Where have you been?"I have hunted for you everywhere. What a little goose you were
to cry in the dining-room. Why, your eyes are red yet."I want you to look pretty when mamma sees you,"so don't you dare be silly again."The
trunks are here yet,"but may be they won't send for
them until morning,"Poor little dear,"Poor little dear,"My mother, oh, my mother!"But I am not your mother, dear,"I am Florence Weston's mother.
I have come for her little satchel that we forgot. Cuddle down, dear,
and go to sleep again."Why mamma, what is the matter?"Now what is the matter with poor Marian?"Nothing,"only everything."She thought I was her mother, Florence, the poor little girl; there,
there, dear, don't cry. She was only half awake and she says I look
like her mother's picture."You do, you look just like the picture,"What picture?"this child is the image of brother.
What picture, I say?"Oh, she means mamma's miniature,"I don't mean the miniature,"I mean my own
mother's picture,"There! doesn't
she look like my mother?"Why, Richard Lee!"That must be a photograph of you!"It is,"it is a picture of me and of my dead wife, but
the baby died too."Well, I didn't die,"I was two months old when my
father went away, and when my mother died, the folks wrote to the place
where my father was the last time they knew anything about him, and I
s'pose they told him I was dead, but I wasn't, and that's my mother.
Uncle George knows it----"Uncle George, my brother George,"Why, little girl, you are my child."And my mother will be your mother,"so what are you
and mamma crying about now?"Didn't you ever hear,"that
sometimes folks cry for joy?"Project
Gutenberg"Project Gutenberg"the Foundation"Project Gutenberg"Project
Gutenberg"Project Gutenberg"Plain Vanilla ASCII"Plain Vanilla ASCII"Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."Defects,"Right
of Replacement or Refund